# E2.3 - Systems of linear equations: iterative methods

## Question 1 - iterative methods

Which of the following statements are correct?

### Solution

<input type="checkbox" checked onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel requires less memory space than Jacobi.

<input type="checkbox" checked onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gaussian elimination always finds the solution if one exists.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Iterative methods always find the solution if one exists.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> The Jacobi method (when it converges) is always faster than Gaussian elimination.

<input type="checkbox" checked onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Iterative methods are more robust regarding round-off errors than Gaussian elimination.

### Explications

## Question 2 - Gauss-Seidel

Can you write a function `gauss_seidel(a, b, epsilon)` to solve the following system using Gauss-Seidel algorithm without relaxation?

$$
\begin{align}
A &= \begin{pmatrix}
     4 & -1 & 1 \\
     -1 & 4 & -2 \\
     1 & -2 & 4
     \end{pmatrix} \\
b^T &= \begin{pmatrix}12 & -1 & 5\end{pmatrix}
\end{align}
$$

### Solution

### Explications

## Question 3 - Algorithm comparison

Compute the inverse of the matrices defined in [question 8 of of the previous task](e2-2#question-8-algorithm-comparison-1-2) using your Gauss-Seidel algorithm.

- Compare the error you get with Gauss-Seidel ($\epsilon=10^{−10}$) to those obtained using LU decomposition.
- Compare the CPU time difference to get the inverses using Gauss-Seidel and LU decomposition. (**Hint**: To get visible time difference repeat the inversion computation a large number of time, i.e. a thousand time).

Which of the following statements match your observations?

### Solution

<input type="checkbox" checked onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel doesn't converge for $A1$.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel doesn't converge for $A2$.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel doesn't converge for $A3$.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel has a lower error than LU decomposition for $A1$.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel has a lower error than LU decomposition for $A2$.

<input type="checkbox" checked onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel has a lower error than LU decomposition for $A3$.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel is faster than LU decomposition for $A1$.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel is faster than LU decomposition for $A2$.

<input type="checkbox" onclick="return false" onkeydown="return false"/> Gauss-Seidel is faster than LU decomposition for $A3$.

### Explications